# Web3 Auction DApp - README

Welcome to the Web3 Auction DApp project repository! This decentralized application (DApp) leverages blockchain technology to implement an auction platform on the Ethereum network. Participants can place bids on items of interest, and the highest bidder at the end of the auction wins the item.

In this final project, a basic Auction smart contract is built. In this contract, users will be able to:

•      	List Items

•      	Bid for an item

•      	Update the listing of an item

•      	Stop the listing of an item

Listing and Bidding: 
  Users will be able to list an item, similar to creating a proposal in our previous project. After listing the item, other users can bid for it. Bids will be held in a StableBTreeMap, allowing visibility into which principal bid how much, akin to the voted vector in the Proposal project.

Editing and Stopping Listings: 
  The owner of the item can edit the listing or stop the process at any time. When the process is stopped, the highest bidder will become the owner of the item. You can create a specific field called new_owner in the Item struct (feel free to choose any name for the struct and field).

Item Management: 
  You will maintain a list of items (similar to proposals). Implement the necessary query methods to retrieve a specific item, a list of items, the length of items listed on the contract, the item sold for the most, and the item that has been bid on the most.

Security Checks: 
  Implement basic security checks to ensure that only the owner of the listing can update or stop it.

You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with auction_final, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/quickstart/quickstart-intro)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/developers-guide/sdk-guide)
- [Rust Canister Devlopment Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/rust-guide/rust-intro)
- [ic-cdk](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk)
- [ic-cdk-macros](https://docs.rs/ic-cdk-macros)
- [Candid Introduction](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/candid-guide/candid-intro)
- [JavaScript API Reference](https://erxue-5aaaa-aaaab-qaagq-cai.raw.icp0.io)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd auction_final/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `production` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
